Before gathering sources, ask for a research outline.
OpenAI Academy specifically recommends sub-questions, a source strategy, and evaluation criteria.
This turns the request from “go find things” into a plan that can be checked before expensive work begins.
Break the main question into sub-questions that together support the decision.
A market-entry study might ask about demand, buyer behavior, competitor strength, regulation, unit economics, and operational constraints.
Each sub-question should change the recommendation or remove a known uncertainty.
Set scope boundaries in advance: region, timeframe, customer group, product category, comparison set, and explicit exclusions.
Without boundaries, the researcher may combine global and local evidence, current and historical data, or consumer and enterprise markets into one smooth but invalid conclusion.
Write a source strategy instead of saying “use reliable sources.
Prioritize primary material such as official announcements, filings, government data, technical documentation, and original research.
Then use reputable secondary reporting for context, contradiction, and interpretation.
Define evaluation criteria for relevance, authority, recency, methodology, and agreement across sources.
If two strong sources conflict, the job is not to average them silently.
The research should explain the difference in definitions, samples, incentives, or dates.
The common failure is treating the outline as bureaucracy.
In reality, the outline is the cheapest review point.
It reveals missing questions, impossible scope, and weak source choices before they become a polished report.
First, decompose the decision into sub-questions that can change the recommendation.
Second, bound the research by region, timeframe, population, and exclusions.
Third, declare the source strategy and evaluation criteria before collection begins.